---
title: The Curse
categories: [Random]
tags: [random]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: aurv
image: /assets/img/posts/Orion_Sirius.jpg
---

I was driving the other day, and a series of cows and bulls were passing by the middle og the road, a usual sight in India. Causing vehicular traffic, with impatient honking and cutting by their sides, the cows nonchalantly walking by as if routine. Yet I stared at this one bull who was standing right in the middle of the road, utterly still as a statue. Unperturbed by the drivers shouting, it was just staring straight ahead. I waited for a few seconds, over a minute, and yet it didn't move an inch. Only the blinking eyes showing signs of life, and a very rare occasional movement of the tail.

It immediately reminded me of the picture of the Hawk, stabbed through the heart by a hunter's arrow. Staring at eventual death. And both scenarios made me wonder: are they thinking? Are they contemplating something? Ofcourse, I project mine own thoughts, but it was eery to see them, so still and lifeless, yet so full of life.

Knowledge. We think about knowledge as power. Yes it indeed is. Knowing the secrets of the stock market, in and outs of your company politics, personal secret details of your enemy, or even a friend. But these are not "knowledge", it's merely information. Which even animals can register, at a very base level of things. What then would I classify as "knowledge", in this context?

I'm reminded of that clichéd metaphorical fish story. Give the man a fish a day, and he will be dependent on you for the next. Teach him how to fish, and he knows how to get it the next day. That, is "knowledge". Knowing the fundamentals of life, like a "seed" from which you can "grow" - grow actions, information, or nothing at all, depending on the context. Ofcourse, the "fisherman" here is doomed without the right lake and enough fish, for he is always condemned to be dependent on Nature. You can never truly be independent.

Certain things are indeed worth knowing. Especially, when they can facilitate and motivate action - action for self development, or for the betterment of your closed ones, ("close ones" depending on your radius of closeness). But the deeper you go, asking the questions, mysteries of life, fundamental aspects of life. ("What indeed is the meaning to this all"?). These questions absolutely futile, and infact has an element of luxury and vanity in it. But such is the curse of the Contemplator, as I have been hammered down to follow by circumstances from my childhood, that he inevitably rushes to find the fundamental aspect of anything and everything he can do. Whether it be for solving the Navier-Stokes, or playing the right tune of a guitar, or the very curse of existence this life. Why indeed, am I alive. And what indeed are human connections, emotions. And what am I living for.

This aspect of knowledge, I could only inevitably conclude, leads to grief. For even as Vyasa says - दुःखमेवास्ति न सुखं, there's only sadness in this world, no happiness. As also does the allfather Odin:
"A wise man's heart is seldom glad, if he's too wise."

When you see the world for what it is, your fundamental subtratum is engulfed in sadness. Sure, you experience passion, happiness, but they're all too fleeting. Even when you're happy, you know how it is going to end. There's the *knowledge* of how there's only ONE permanence of grief, your only constant companion in wisdom; even if it's a human construct, it's almost as if this indifference engulfs the whole world, even the inanimate. That even the small moments of happiness fade away info series of insignificant moments, most of which we never hold on to. This is the curse of wisdom, and in this wisdom is a loneliness. Because, ofcourse you're a madman, and others would see you as one. And you're separated from this world, unable to form deep connections, only attracting pity at best which you hate, for nobody would even be able to empathise or truly understand. You only have your own company, and - like others - you hate this wisdom, and you hate yourself. It's a curse, for even yourself abandons you.

Your heart hopes, but the Curse knows it's futile. Your heart yearns, it thirsts for activity and connection. But it is all too weak against this behemoth of Evil, which the gods warn us against. Maybe it is for these hopeless suckers that Bhagavan even invented a fake concept of moksha, liberation, to see the illusionary light at the end of the tunnel. There's only one solution.

The only solution? To stop existing, to have an arrow pierced into your heart. For that renders even the Curse - which is like a bloodthirsty parasite - powerless, and for a temporary fleeting moment, you overpower it and are happy in that bliss. And then there's Darkness, thy saviour.
